[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and sally nugent the
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning
ready to roll out gp surgeries in
england and care homes in scotland will
start giving doses of the covid vaccine
today
going the extra mile both sides agree to
keep talking in an attempt to break the
deadlock over a brexit trade deal
but talk is not enough for businesses
i'll be talking to exporters
importers those who move goods around
europe and asking what is at stake
with two and a half weeks to go the
master of the spinal
john le carrier author of tinker taylor
soldier spy amongst many others has died
aged 89.
good morning arsenal's misery continues
they've suffered their worst ever start
to a premier league season after losing
at home to burnley
2 000 fans in the ground but some could
barely watch
ready freddie go we catch up with the
nine-year-old running
every day to raise funds for the
hospital treating his best friend
[Music]
welcome to the london coliseum the
largest west end theatre in london and
we're going to be joined live
all morning by the chorus from the
english
national opera to bring some christmas
cheer we need it because outside the
weather is rather wet
we're going to have showers or longer
spells of rain and it's going to be
quite windy today as well
but i'll have all the details in 10
minutes
[Music]
good morning it's monday it's the 14th
of december top story for you this
morning around
100 gp practices in england are to
receive their
first batches of the coronavirus vaccine
today some will start giving the
vaccinations to patients
from today with those aged over 80 given
priority
our science correspondent pal gauche has
this report
dr amara hughes is getting her surgery
ready
for the next phase of the nhs
vaccination campaign
in the heart of london bloomsbury
surgery will aim to vaccinate between
800 to 1000 over eighties in the next
three and a half days
that will mean injecting up to forty
patients every hour
like others receiving the doses the
practice will be opened between
eight am and eight pm 7 days a week
those eligible for a jab will be
contacted by the surgery
do sit tight we will be phoning you
so it is by appointment and and we will
get to everybody so don't start ringing
your practices
because we will be ringing you to ensure
that if you're eligible that you are
invited for your vaccine the rollout to
gp surgeries comes less than a week
after margaret keenan made history when
the uk
became the first country in the world to
begin vaccinations in hospitals
the jabs are now being administered in
the community
an immunization campaign of this
magnitude
has never been undertaken by the nhs
it has been a real roller coaster and
many of my colleagues have been working
you know all hours through the covered
pandemic
and now to finally be in a position to
offer a vaccination to our community
is incredibly powerful and as a gp i'm
really quite blown away around 100
practices in england will receive their
doses
a further 100 to 200 are expected to
receive them by the end of the week
palab gauche bbc news
uh let's speak to guido pense who is
outside of gp practice
in the west midlands uh that will begin
vaccinating later on today
um good morning to you lovely to have
you on the program
let us know is it an exciting day
yes excitement and i understand from
staff here real
sense of pride as you can imagine to be
one of the first
gp surgeries in the country to be able
to offer
this vaccination to the most vulnerable
of
patients in this area here in hell's
owen
and the surrounding area and as we heard
in that film today
a gp surgeries in locations across
england will receive
uh the batch of this vaccine the fisa
vaccine
which some of them will open clinics
this afternoon which is what's happening
here
that's why they'll be amongst the first
patients but also for most of the gp
surgeries it will start from
tomorrow and it will be the most
vulnerable people first as we saw
last week the beginning of that mass
vaccination program beginning
in those designated hospital hubs
across the country well this is really
about bringing it into the heart
of the community and so with this
surgery they say they are contacting
those who are
80 and over not just at this surgery but
in other surgeries around this area so
really is about collaboration
also local nhs staff such as nurses and
pharmacists will be
working alongside gps to roll out the
vaccine but a real
milestone moment and as we heard in that
film
this is uh the greatest vaccination
program
ever to be undertaken by the nhs but i
think there will be
lots of smiles here today okay keita
thank you very much we're back with you
later and i'm going to be talking to one
of the gps there
over the course of the program well
vaccinations will also begin in care
homes in scotland today
staff and older residents will be the
first to receive the jab
there have been fears that the rollout
wouldn't go ahead because of
difficulties in storing the vaccine
the scottish government says it is a
step on the road to recovery from the
pandemic
schools in the london borough of
greenwich have been asked to close from
this evening because of the case
a rise of coronavirus cases there in the
capital the council's labour leader
wrote to all headteachers and parents in
the area suggesting that teaching moves
online the national education union said
the decision was
very sensible talks will continue today
between the uk
and the eu after both sides agreed to go
the extra mile to secure a post-brexit
deal
the eu's chief negotiator michel barnier
will brief ambassadors of the 27 member
states in brussels this morning
well correspondent nick beak is there
for us morning to you nick now normally
at this point are we starting to hear
little rumors and things sneaking out
from the talks
but so far this seems to be quite quiet
doesn't it
morning sally morning dan yeah i think
you're absolutely right the sort of tap
of information that's coming from inside
the negotiating room
has really been turned down to a trickle
so anyone this morning who's telling you
they really know what's going on i'd
suggest they may be telling porcupines
because it's really difficult to know
what exactly is happening we know
clearly that fish is still an issue
but also it's the idea of competition
rules the so-called
level playing field think of it like a
football field you don't want to be you
don't want it to be slanted in one
direction or the other so that one side
has an unfair
advantage and i think the talks are
really coming down
to this the extent to which in the
future one side may try and undercut the
other so that's what they're going to
try and sort out
over the coming days interestingly they
haven't set a new deadline
now is that a recognition that this sort
of stuff is hard enough anyway without
a short-term deadline being imposed on
things we know the deadline that really
counts
is the end of the year the 31st of
december when the uk leaves the
transition period
as you say the the um the eu's chief
negotiator michel barnier will be
updating eu ambassadors today
normally he gives a pretty bleak
assessment of what's been going on it'll
be interesting to see if he thinks
after this phone call yesterday between
boris johnson and the european
commission president that there is a bit
more renewed hope
i don't want to exaggerate here i mean
the feeling is pretty gloomy still they
think
a no deal is still you know very likely
but
maybe maybe that their keep on talking
is a good sign and that this deal could
be
snatched at the last minute nick thanks
very much indeed that's nick beak in
brussels now one of britain's best known
spy novelist john le carre has died at
the age of 89 after a short illness
described as an undisputed giant of
english literature his most famous works
include
tinker taylor soldier spy the night
manager
and the spy who came in from the cold
our reporter keith doyle
takes a look back at his life and career
now
and he must have a man on the inside
wasn't he alec guinness in the
television version of tinker taylor
soldier spy
playing george smiley the spymaster was
john le carre's most enduring and
celebrated creation
like smiley le carre had been a spy
david cornwell his real name had been
fascinated by lies and duplicity since
childhood
he was first recruited for intelligence
work at university in switzerland
then at oxford he spied on left-wing
contemporaries
when the option was presented to me it
was
immensely attractive it really was as if
the whole of my life had prepared me for
this moment
the spy who came in from the cold later
filmed with richard burton
was le carrey's breakthrough novel
written while he was working for mi6
at the british embassy in bonn when the
berlin wall went up
the author stephen king tweeted john le
carre has passed at the age of 89.
this terrible year has claimed a
literary giant and a humanitarian spirit
his agent of 15 years johnny geller
wrote
john le carre was an undisputed giant of
english literature
i've lost a mentor an inspiration but
most importantly a friend
we will not see his like again his work
did define the cold war era but his
first post-cold war novel
the night manager was another best
seller and a hit
tv adaptation 20 years later in which
the author played a rare cameo
but it was his spy novels he'll be most
remembered for
he believed authors and spies had much
in common both hiding their real selves
in characters
of their own creation keith doyle bbc
news
what incredible career amazing amazing
and of course we will be
paying tribute to john acara throughout
this program
and at 8 30 this morning we will hear
from the novelist robert harris and
ian rankin they both have tales to tell
yes two big
literary big hitters themselves now if
you're a keen stargazer you'll know that
last night was a good chance to see the
geminid meteor shower
but um in some places as per usual there
was a better view than others
have a look at these these pictures were
taken in a mountainous area of
southwest china wow high altitude clear
skies
helped to set up that incredible display
the geminids
are huge chunks of ice and rock from an
asteroid
the earth passes through the debris
every
[Music]
december
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news